In this video, we're
going to look at
options for visualizing
data using Power Pivot.
I'm in my Sales by year Tab,
and I'd like to show
this data graphically.
In Power Pivot, we can use
pivot charts just like we
can with normal pivot.
Clicking at data, come up to
a PivotTable Analyze ribbon.
We're going to select PivotChart.
I'm just going to click OK,
and that looks terrific.
But one of the limitations
we've seen with
pivot charts is that there are
several chart types
that we can't use.
For example, we can't
use scatter charts or
neither new ones like hierarchy
charts and map charts.
What we're going to see next is
a fabulous workaround that
we get from Power Pivot.
We're going to come to our
Product by Category tab,
and we're going to build
another pivot table.
This time we want to see
how many products were
sold by category and subcategory,
and then we want to
be able to filter
that by country and year.
I'm going to click
Insert, PivotTable,
and OK, and then
in my field list,
under Order Items, I'm
going to select quantity,
and under products,
I'm going to select
Category and Sub Category.
I'm going to make
a couple of little
changes to this pivot.
Coming up to my Design ribbon,
we're going to come
to Report Layout,
and I'm going to change
this to tabular form,
and then in my grand totals,
I'm going to actually switch them
off for rows and columns.
Now the next thing I want
to be able to do is to
actually slice this data to
see it by a combination
of country and year.
To do this, I'm going to
add a couple of slices.
Back on my PivotTable Analyze,
we're going to choose
Insert Slicer,
and by default we're seeing
all the tables that are
in the pivot table.
But if you click the
All tab in Power Pivot,
you can add a slice of them from
absolutely any table
in the data Model.
The first one we want is country,
and I also want a year,
but if you use the
one in the calendar,
we're going to get all
the years from 1961.
We're actually going to scroll
down to our order's table,
and here's that calculated
column we created earlier.
We're going to select
Order Year and say OK.
There are two slices.
I'm going to hold shift
down, select country,
and then I can resize them
both to a better width
at the same time,
and then I'm going
to grab Order Year,
pull that up above,
country, resize slightly and
just make sure you can see
both nice and clearly.
Now if I only wanted to see
sales for Canada in 2018,
I can select Canada,
I can select 2018,
and my data's nicely filtered.
This is one of the
things we love about
pivot tables is that we
get that interactivity,
where we can slice and dice
the data to see the
way we want it.
To remove those filters,
just click the clear filter
at the top of the slicer.
But I now want to show this
data in a hierarchy chart,
and pivot charts simply
don't support that.
Now if we're working
in normal Excel,
what I might decide to do is use
a SUMIFS calculation,
for example.
But one of the things we need to
understand about
the data model is
we cannot access it using
regular Excel functions.
In fact, the only
way we've seen of
accessing it up to now
is by a pivot table.
But there is another method.
It's called a cube function.
Cube functions were
actually introduced in
2007 to allow us to
access OLAP cubes.
They pre-date the data model,
but they've actually been
repurposed, if you like.
We can now use cube functions
to access the data
model directly.
If you come down to F22,
we're going to type equals cub,
you'll see there are actually
seven cube functions in Excel,
but we're just going to
look at one for now,
and that is CUBEVALUE,
so ev and tab.
CUBEVALUE allows you to get
a value from the data model.
In this case, I
would like to find
out how many vests
have been ordered.
The first thing I need to
provide is a connection.
This is really easy.
If you type the double quotes,
it gives you one option,
ThisWorkBookDataModel, and
that's exactly what we want.
Just press tab, close the
double-quotes and type a comma.
The next thing we need
to tell it is that
we want to add up
our order quantity.
Now there are a couple
of ways of doing this,
but the easiest way
is using a measure.
We haven't really talked
about measures yet.
That's coming in the next video.
But for now, I'll just
explain that a measure is
basically an aggregation of
some data within the model.
In this case, the
data we're trying to
aggregate is our order quantity.
We're going to open
up double quotes,
we're going to select Measures,
then type of dot,
and what we're looking for
is our order quantity.
I'm going to tab to select that,
close my double quotes and
then type another comma.
The last thing I need
to do is specify that I
want to filter this
by subcategory,
and the subcategory I'm
filtering by is vests.
Again, open your double quotes.
We're going to get category
from our lookup products.
I'm going to select that, dot,
open my square brackets,
and I'm looking for
subcategories, su,
and tab to select Sub
Category, and finally,
which subcategory, another dot,
my square brackets, and
I'm looking for Vests.
Close the square brackets,
close your double quotes,
close the round bracket and
there's your cube function.
When I press enter, there's
the correct answer.
We've now seen how we can access
data directly in the data model.
The downside was that function
was actually an MDX function.
It's a whole new language
and it's going to
take a little bit
of effort to learn.
The great news is
you don't have to.
In Power Pivot, we can take
a regular pivot table and
convert it to cube functions.
Click into the data.
We're going to come
up to our PivotTable
Analyze ribbon,
and the OLAP tools button,
which is normally grayed out.
If you click the drop-down,
there's an option to
convert to formulas.
When I click on that, job done.
This is no longer pivot table.
This is now getting
the data directly
from the data model
using cube formulas,
and the benefit of that is
I can use all my regular charts.
Just make sure you clicked
somewhere in the data,
come to your Insert ribbon,
come to Charts, and I'd
like a hierarchy charts.
I'm going to click
the drop-down by
hierarchy and I'm going
to go for a Sunburst.
I'm then going to make
this really nice and big,
and I'm going to move
the chart title.
But here is the added bonus.
The slices still work.
If I were to choose sales
for 2018, for example,
you'll see it has
filtered my data and of
course filtered my chart,
and there are my sales
for Canada in 2018.
Two-thirds of them are bikes.
2019, I introduced a
whole additional range
and only a third of my
sales were actually bikes.
We've seen that cube
functions can help us
address limitations with
pivot charts or pivot tables.
They can also allow
us to pull data from
multiple data models and
integrate that in
a single report.
Now it's important to note
that these are working
like normal functions.
So far, if I added
another subcategory,
it's not going to suddenly appear
here where it would
with a pivot table.
It's not that cube functions
don't have their own limitations.
But if you want to address
limitations with pivot
charts or pivot tables,
or if you want to pull data
and integrate it from
multiple data models,
cube functions may give
you the solution
you're looking for.
For a little more information
on the cube functions,
check out this week's toolbox.